docs: Add detailed contributing guidelines (#404)
kinvolk/lokomotive: docs/CONTRIBUTING.md

Commit and submit a PR.

## Authoring PRs

These are general guidelines for making PRs/commits easier to review:

>  * Commits should be atomic and self-contained. Divide logically separate changes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * Commits should be atomic and self contained. Divide logically-separate changes
```

AFAIK hyphens in compound adjectives should be used when the adjective comes *after* the verb. Example:

:heavy_check_mark: This example is **self contained**.
:heavy_check_mark: I'm writing a **self-contained** example.

Author: Good to know! I always did what my gut feeling told me :see_no_evil:

   to separate commits. This principle is best explained in the the Linux Kernel
   [submitting patches][linux-sep-changes] guide.

 * Commit messages should explain the intention, _why_ something is done. This,
   too, is best explained in [this section][linux-desc-changes] from the Linux
   Kernel patch submission guide.

 * Commit titles (the first line in a commit) should be meaningful and describe
   _what_ the commit does.

 * Don't add code you will change in a later commit (it makes it pointless to
   review that commit), nor create a commit to add code an earlier commit should

>    have added. Consider to just squash the changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   have added. Consider squashing the relevant commits instead.
```

 * It's not important to retain your development history when contributing a

>    change. Use `git rebase` to squash and order commits in a way that is easy to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   change. Use `git rebase` to squash and order commits in a way that makes them easy to
```

   review. Keep the final, well-structured commits and not your development history
   that led to the final state.

 * Consider reviewing the changes yourself before opening a PR. It is likely
   you will catch errors when looking at your code critically and thus save the
   reviewers (and yourself) time.

 * Use the PR's description as a "cover letter" and give the context you think
   reviewers might need. Use the PR's description to explain why you are
   proposing the change, give an overview, raise questions about yet-unresolved

>    issues in your PR, list TODO items, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   issues in your PR, list TODO items etc.
```

That's an Oxford comma ;-)

Author: Oh, right. But it feels weird without an `and` or `or`. Is it really used like this in this (just space and `etc.`)? My eyes hurt a little, but if it's correct...

Author: Added it, I don't like it but if there is a less ugly way to do it, let's open another PR and get done with this one. This is not so important and is the only thing pending :)

Commit and submit a PR.

## Contributing PRs

> This is a general guideline to make PRs/commits easier to review. Use your own

Author: Okay, removed. Thanks!

judgement to decide when it is best to follow them. These are not strict rules
but highly recommended to follow:

 * Commits should be atomic and self-contained. Divide logically separate changes

>    to separate commits. This principle  is best explained in the the Linux Kernel

Reviewer 2: Any specific reason for double space here?
```suggestion
   to separate commits. This principle is best explained in the the Linux Kernel
```

Author: Nope :see_no_evil:

   explained in the the Linux Kernel [submitting patches][linux-sep-changes]
   guide.

 * Commit messages should explain the intention, _why_ something is done. This,
   too, is best explained in [this section][linux-desc-changes] from the Linux
   Kernel submitting patches guide.

 * Commit titles should be meaningful and describe _what_ the commit does

>    ("refactor" and "fix" would be the title of ~all commits otherwise). For

Author: Removed, thanks!

>    example, when you are using "refactor" in a title, you probably include a list

Author: My intention was the oposite: if you find using it, consider spliting the changes :)

>    example, when you are using "refactor" in a title, you probably include a list

Author: Just removed the example. Hope it is clearer now, with less text :)

   of things in the commit message. Consider doing those things in different
   commits instead. Commits should be atomic.

>  * Don't add code you will change later (it makes pointless to review that

Author: A later commit, will fix. Thanks!

>  * Don't add code you will change later (it makes pointless to review that

Author: Fixed

   commit), nor create a commit to add code an earlier commit should have
   added. Consider to just squash the changes.

 * Your development history is not important. Use git rebase to squash and order
   commits in a way that is easy to review. Just keep the useful commits and not
   your development history that led you to the change.

 * Consider reviewing yourself the changes before opening a PR. Most of the
   times, you can catch several errors.

>  * Use the PR description as a cover letter and give the context you think

Reviewer: IMO the most important thing to include in the description is the rationale for opening the PR: **why** I'm proposing the change and think it's a good idea to merge it.

Author: Added, thanks!

>    people reviewing the code might need. Use the PR description to give an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   reviewers might need. Use the PR's description to give an
```

>    overview, ask the questions about yet unsolved things in your PR, list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   overview, raise questions about yet-unresolved issues in your PR, list
```

>    pending/TODO items, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   pending/TODO items etc.
```

Author: Why not `,`?

Reviewer 2: https://english.stackexchange.com/a/1470 seems like something which should go into style guide.

Author: I'm not sure I follow why that is answer. You are trating ' /` as or? I can remove pending, keep it `list TODO items` and that will make everyone happy?

> If PRs follow these rules, usually, they are more easy to review and merge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PRs which follow these rules are easier to review and merge.
```

It is totally okay to bend the rules sometimes. For example, if you reworked a
piece of code and you realize it happens to fix other issues, that is totally
fine. A strict interpretation of the "commits shouls be atomic" rule might make
you think you need to fix the issues in the original code and _then_ do your
rework that possibly deletes the fixes you created. That is not the idea, we
don't want to create pointless overhead. Just do your rework and mention that it
also fixes some other bugs that were present before your PR. Don't add code you

> will later delete (as another rule says).

Reviewer: I would remove this paragraph. I think all it does is weaken the message we are trying to convey with these guidelines. People know guidelines aren't laws and we should trust them to use their good judgement when contributing.

Author: I wanted to emphasize that you shouldn't have to do a lot of extra work "to make your PR according to the rules". I thought that interpretation I used in the example was _plausible_ and wanted to make clear it was not the intention.

But if it clear for others too, maybe I'll remove it. Thanks! :)

Author: Okay, removed as @invidian said he agreed with the comments you did too :)

Use your own judgement to decide when is best to follow these rules. Don't make
your life too hard, keep the commit history useful and try to make the review

> process easy, this is the intent after all.

Reviewer: I would remove this paragraph, too. It doesn't make the message clearer IMO.

Author: Okay
